README.md, before:

# APC_Temp_fetch

This python package provides an unified interface to several UPS
network adapters with different firmware versions. It does not
support guessing which interface to use; that wasn't necessary yet.

It supports the following interfaces:
| `kind` | `description` |
|--------|---------------|
| `old`  | Simple interface using HTTP basic auth, information gets extracted from `upsstat.htm`, by finding the line mentioning `Internal Temperature` |
| `frmnc` | Requires 2 HTTP requests, main characteristics are that the login form is named `frmLogin` in HTML, and the data is presented in a `<div>`-table, but parsable line-by-line |
| `frmnc666` | Similar to `frmnc`; with 3 HTTP requests, but the status page is named `upstat.htm` (which makes the additional HTTP request necessary) |
| `gden-nt07` | Similar to `frmnc`; with 3 HTTP requests, but the login form is named `HashForm1` instead, and the data representation is more complex, so a more full-blown HTML-parser is used; data structured via `<span>` items |
| `cs121` | Unauthenticated HTTP API (simply pass `- -` as `<user> <password>`), information gets extracted from `main.shtml`, by parsing `_dw` and `&nbsp;` from an HTML table, line-by-line |
| `cs141` | Simple JSON API (and the imo best interface of these); with 3 HTTP requests, characteristic is the the data is located at `/api/devices/ups/report` |

The description provides some guidance which `kind` an interface is.
You may also just try out each `kind` and check if any returns useful results,
but (although unlikely) it may "brick" the network adapter until it is reset;
usually seen when (thru some bug) the script isn't able to properly logout
after a successful login, because many of these network adapters limit the
number of concurrent logins, often to even just 1 user at a time.

This package has 2 entry points:
* `APC_Tempf [--verbose] [--proxy <proxy_url>] <kind> <host> <user> <password> [--timeout <timeout>]`
  `kind` is the one of these mentioned above.
  `host`, `user` and `password` should be self-explanatory.
  `timeout` is an optional per-request timeout.
  This is the primary, "simple" interface.

* `APC_Tempstfe [--verbose] [--proxy <proxy_url>] <apclist>`
  allows querying multiple UPS devices sequentially, and is used to
  amortize the python script startup time.
  The file should contain lines of the format `<kind> <host> <user> <password>[ <timeout>]`
  (all without the `<>` brackets).
  After the timeout, a comment may be given, or a comment can be alternatively placed
  at the begging of a line, prefixed with a `# `; empty lines are ignored.

Results are formatted as `<host>\t<temperature>` (`<>` brackets aren't part of the output,
`\t` is replaced with an ASCII TAB character).

## proxy support

If required, `--proxy <proxy_url>` can be added to the entry point command line
to contact all API endpoints through the specified proxy.
Note that this might require `pip3 install 'requests[socks]'` or
on Gentoo `USE="socks5" emerge -v dev-python/requests` to work with SOCKS proxies.

When using the python API, proxies can be specified in the `ApcKind.__init__(_, rqa)`
`rqa` parameter (see Requests documentation, or the source code in `cli.py`)

Commit message:

add note that proxy usage is strongly discouraged

README.md, after:

# APC_Temp_fetch

This python package provides an unified interface to several UPS
network adapters with different firmware versions. It does not
support guessing which interface to use; that wasn't necessary yet.

It supports the following interfaces:
| `kind` | `description` |
|--------|---------------|
| `old`  | Simple interface using HTTP basic auth, information gets extracted from `upsstat.htm`, by finding the line mentioning `Internal Temperature` |
| `frmnc` | Requires 2 HTTP requests, main characteristics are that the login form is named `frmLogin` in HTML, and the data is presented in a `<div>`-table, but parsable line-by-line |
| `frmnc666` | Similar to `frmnc`; with 3 HTTP requests, but the status page is named `upstat.htm` (which makes the additional HTTP request necessary) |
| `gden-nt07` | Similar to `frmnc`; with 3 HTTP requests, but the login form is named `HashForm1` instead, and the data representation is more complex, so a more full-blown HTML-parser is used; data structured via `<span>` items |
| `cs121` | Unauthenticated HTTP API (simply pass `- -` as `<user> <password>`), information gets extracted from `main.shtml`, by parsing `_dw` and `&nbsp;` from an HTML table, line-by-line |
| `cs141` | Simple JSON API (and the imo best interface of these); with 3 HTTP requests, characteristic is the the data is located at `/api/devices/ups/report` |

The description provides some guidance which `kind` an interface is.
You may also just try out each `kind` and check if any returns useful results,
but (although unlikely) it may "brick" the network adapter until it is reset;
usually seen when (thru some bug) the script isn't able to properly logout
after a successful login, because many of these network adapters limit the
number of concurrent logins, often to even just 1 user at a time.

This package has 2 entry points:
* `APC_Tempf [--verbose] [--proxy <proxy_url>] <kind> <host> <user> <password> [--timeout <timeout>]`
  `kind` is the one of these mentioned above.
  `host`, `user` and `password` should be self-explanatory.
  `timeout` is an optional per-request timeout.
  This is the primary, "simple" interface.

* `APC_Tempstfe [--verbose] [--proxy <proxy_url>] <apclist>`
  allows querying multiple UPS devices sequentially, and is used to
  amortize the python script startup time.
  The file should contain lines of the format `<kind> <host> <user> <password>[ <timeout>]`
  (all without the `<>` brackets).
  After the timeout, a comment may be given, or a comment can be alternatively placed
  at the begging of a line, prefixed with a `# `; empty lines are ignored.

Results are formatted as `<host>\t<temperature>` (`<>` brackets aren't part of the output,
`\t` is replaced with an ASCII TAB character).

## proxy support

Warning: It is strongly discouraged to ever use this. At most, use it for testing.
But as we know, testing too often just implicitly ends up in production sometimes,
so also avoid this when testing. This is an extremely hacky workaround and goes
against security and maintainability best practises usually, afaik. Do not use this.

If required, `--proxy <proxy_url>` can be added to the entry point command line
to contact all API endpoints through the specified proxy.
Note that this might require `pip3 install 'requests[socks]'` or
on Gentoo `USE="socks5" emerge -v dev-python/requests` to work with SOCKS proxies.

When using the python API, proxies can be specified in the `ApcKind.__init__(_, rqa)`
`rqa` parameter (see Requests documentation, or the source code in `cli.py`)
